Suppose you have a database of blog posts and authors, and you want to reference the author of each post using their unique ID. You could define a schema like this:

```js
const mongoose = require('mongoose'); 
const postSchema = new mongoose.Schema({ 
  title: String, 
  content: String, 
  author: { type: mongoose.Schema.Types.ObjectId, ref: 'Author' } 
}); 
const authorSchema = new mongoose.Schema({ 
  name: String, 
  email: String 
}); 
const Post = mongoose.model('Post', postSchema); 
const Author = mongoose.model('Author', authorSchema);

```
In this example, we define two schemas: `postSchema` and `authorSchema`. The `postSchema` defines the structure of a post document, with fields for the title, content, and an author field. The `author` field is a reference to an author document, using the `ObjectId` type and the `ref` option to specify the name of the referenced model (`Author`).

The `authorSchema` defines the structure of an author document, with fields for the name and email address.

To create a new author and a new post referencing that author, you could do something like this:

```js
const author = new Author({ name: "Alice", email: "alice@example.com" });

const post = new Post({
  title: "My First Blog Post",
  content: "Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet...",
  author: author._id
});

author.save((err, author) => {
  if (err) { console.error(err); }
  else {
    post.save((err, post) => {
      if (err) { console.error(err); }
      else { console.log(post); }
    });
  }
});
```

In this example, we create a new `Author` instance and a new `Post` instance. We set the `author` field of the post to the `_id` of the author document. We then save the author document first, and then the post document, ensuring that the author document is saved before the post document is saved with the reference to the author.

The resulting post document will have an `_id` field generated by MongoDB, along with the specified fields and a reference to the author document. When you retrieve the post document, you can use the `populate` method to retrieve the referenced author document as well:

javascript

```js
Post.findById(postId).populate('author').exec((err, post) => {
  if (err) {
    console.error(err);
  }
  else {
    console.log(post);
  }
});
```

In this example, we use the `findById` method to retrieve a post document by its ID, and then we use the `populate` method to populate the `author` field with the corresponding author document. The resulting `post` object will include both the post and author data.